content/en/docs/21.0/reference/vreplication/throttling.md, before:

---
title: Throttling
weight: 300
---

### Introduction

VReplication moves potentially massive amounts of data from one place to another, whether within the same keyspace and shard or across keyspaces. It copies tables and follows up to apply ongoing changes on those tables by reading the binary logs (aka the changelog).

This places load on both the source side (where VReplication reads data from) as well as on target side (where VReplication writes data to).

On the source side, VReplication reads the content of tables. This typically means loading pages from disk contending for disk IO, and "polluting" the MySQL buffer pool. The operation competes with normal production traffic for both IO and memory resources. If the source is a replica, the operation may lead to replication lag. If the source is a primary, this may lead to write contention.

On the target side, VReplication writes massive amount of data. If the target server is a primary with replicas, then the replicas may incur replication lag.

To help address the above issues, VReplication uses the [tablet throttler](../../features/tablet-throttler/) mechanism to push back both reads and writes.

### Target Throttling

On the target side, VReplication wishes to consult the overall health of the target shard (there can be multiple shards to a VReplication workflow, and here we discuss the single shard at the end of a single VReplication stream). That shard may serve production traffic unrelated to VReplication. VReplication therefore consults the internal equivalent of `/throttler/check` when writing data to the shard's primary. This checks the MySQL replication lag on relevant replicas in the shard. The throttler will delay the VReplication writes of both table-copy and changelog events until the shard's replication lag is under the defined threshold (1s by default).

### Source Throttling

On the source side, VReplication only affects the single MySQL server it reads from, and has no impact on the overall shard. VStreamer, the source endpoint of VReplication, consults the equivalent of `/throttler/check-self`, which looks for replication lag on the source host.

As long as `check-self` fails — meaning that the replication lag is not within the defined threshold (1s by default) — VStreamer will not read table data, nor will it pull events from the changelog.

### Impact of Throttling

VReplication throttling is designed to give preference to normal production traffic while operating in the background. Production traffic will see less contention. The downside is that VReplication can take longer to operate. Under high load in production VReplication may altogether stall, to resume later when the load subsides.

Throttling will push back VReplication on replication lag. On systems where replication lag is normally high this can prevent VReplication from being able to operate normally. In such systems consider configuring `--throttle-threshold` to a value that agrees with your constraints. The default throttling threshold is at `1` second replication lag.

Commit message:

Docs: tablet throttler deprecations in v21
Signed-off-by: Shlomi Noach <2607934+shlomi-noach@users.noreply.github.com>

content/en/docs/21.0/reference/vreplication/throttling.md, after:

---
title: Throttling
weight: 300
---

### Introduction

VReplication moves potentially massive amounts of data from one place to another, whether within the same keyspace and shard or across keyspaces. It copies tables and follows up to apply ongoing changes on those tables by reading the binary logs (aka the changelog).

This places load on both the source side (where VReplication reads data from) as well as on target side (where VReplication writes data to).

On the source side, VReplication reads the content of tables. This typically means loading pages from disk contending for disk IO, and "polluting" the MySQL buffer pool. The operation competes with normal production traffic for both IO and memory resources. If the source is a replica, the operation may lead to replication lag. If the source is a primary, this may lead to write contention.

On the target side, VReplication writes massive amount of data. If the target server is a primary with replicas, then the replicas may incur replication lag.

To help address the above issues, VReplication uses the [tablet throttler](../../features/tablet-throttler/) mechanism to push back both reads and writes.

### Target Throttling

On the target side, VReplication wishes to consult the overall health of the target shard (there can be multiple shards to a VReplication workflow, and here we discuss the single shard at the end of a single VReplication stream). That shard may serve production traffic unrelated to VReplication. VReplication therefore consults the tablet throttler when writing data to the shard's primary. This checks the MySQL replication lag on relevant replicas in the shard, and/or any other configured metrics. The throttler will delay the VReplication writes of both table-copy and changelog events until the shard's replication lag or other metrics are below their respective thresholds..

### Source Throttling

On the source side, VReplication only affects the single MySQL server it reads from, and has no impact on the overall shard. VStreamer, the source endpoint of VReplication, consults the tablet's throttler. By default this looks for replication lag on tablet's MySQL server. It may look for additional/other metrics per configuration. As long as any of the metrics exceeds its threshold, VStreamer will not read table data, nor will it pull events from the changelog.

### Impact of Throttling

VReplication throttling is designed to give preference to normal production traffic while operating in the background. Production traffic will see less contention. The downside is that VReplication can take longer to operate. Under high load in production VReplication may altogether stall, to resume later when the load subsides.

Throttling will push back VReplication on replication lag. On systems where replication lag is normally high this can prevent VReplication from being able to operate normally. In such systems consider configuring `--throttle-threshold` to a value that agrees with your constraints. The default throttling threshold is at `1` second replication lag.
