content/en/docs/22.0/reference/programs/vtctldclient/vtctldclient_Workflow/vtctldclient_Workflow_delete.md, before:

---
title: Workflow delete
series: vtctldclient
commit: 76350bd01072921484303a16e9879f69d907f6f3
---
## vtctldclient Workflow delete

Delete a VReplication workflow.

```
vtctldclient Workflow delete
```

### Examples

```
vtctldclient --server localhost:15999 workflow --keyspace customer delete --workflow commerce2customer
```

### Options

```
      --delete-batch-size int   The batch size to use when deleting a subset of data from the migrated tables. This is only used with multi-tenant MoveTables workflows. (default 1000)
  -h, --help                    help for delete
      --keep-data               Keep the partially copied table data from the workflow in the target keyspace.
      --keep-routing-rules      Keep the routing rules created for the workflow.
      --shards strings          (Optional) Specifies a comma-separated list of shards to operate on.
  -w, --workflow string         The workflow you want to delete.
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --action_timeout duration              timeout to use for the command (default 1h0m0s)
      --compact                              use compact format for otherwise verbose outputs
  -k, --keyspace string                      Keyspace context for the workflow.
      --server string                        server to use for the connection (required)
      --topo-global-root string              the path of the global topology data in the global topology server (default "/vitess/global")
      --topo-global-server-address strings   the address of the global topology server(s) (default [localhost:2379])
      --topo-implementation string           the topology implementation to use (default "etcd2")
```

### SEE ALSO

* [vtctldclient Workflow](../)	 - Administer VReplication workflows (Reshard, MoveTables, etc) in the given keyspace.

Commit message:

Bring v22 docs up-to-date with main after PR merged
Signed-off-by: Matt Lord <mattalord@gmail.com>

content/en/docs/22.0/reference/programs/vtctldclient/vtctldclient_Workflow/vtctldclient_Workflow_delete.md, after:

---
title: Workflow delete
series: vtctldclient
commit: b0b79813f21f8ecbf409f558ad6f8864332637cf
---
## vtctldclient Workflow delete

Delete a VReplication workflow.

```
vtctldclient Workflow delete
```

### Examples

```
vtctldclient --server localhost:15999 workflow --keyspace customer delete --workflow commerce2customer
```

### Options

```
      --delete-batch-size int   When cleaning up the migrated data in tables moved as part of a multi-tenant MoveTables workflow, delete the records in batches of this size. (default 1000)
  -h, --help                    help for delete
      --keep-data               Keep the partially copied table data from the workflow in the target keyspace.
      --keep-routing-rules      Keep the routing rules created for the workflow.
      --shards strings          (Optional) Specifies a comma-separated list of shards to operate on.
  -w, --workflow string         The workflow you want to delete.
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --action_timeout duration              timeout to use for the command (default 1h0m0s)
      --compact                              use compact format for otherwise verbose outputs
  -k, --keyspace string                      Keyspace context for the workflow.
      --server string                        server to use for the connection (required)
      --topo-global-root string              the path of the global topology data in the global topology server (default "/vitess/global")
      --topo-global-server-address strings   the address of the global topology server(s) (default [localhost:2379])
      --topo-implementation string           the topology implementation to use (default "etcd2")
```

### SEE ALSO

* [vtctldclient Workflow](../)	 - Administer VReplication workflows (Reshard, MoveTables, etc) in the given keyspace.
