content/en/docs/21.0/reference/programs/vtctldclient/vtctldclient_VDiff/vtctldclient_VDiff_create.md, before:

---
title: VDiff create
series: vtctldclient
commit: 4bc3b998941037e0446f5c0899587e4093d79f57
---
## vtctldclient VDiff create

Create and run a VDiff to compare the tables involved in a VReplication workflow between the source and target.

```
vtctldclient VDiff create
```

### Examples

```
vtctldclient --server localhost:15999 vdiff --workflow commerce2customer --target-keyspace customer create
vtctldclient --server :15999 vdiff --workflow c2c --target-keyspace customer create b3f59678-5241-11ee-be56-0242ac120002 --source-cells zone1 --tablet-types "rdonly,replica" --target-cells zone1 --update-table-stats --max-report-sample-rows 1000 --wait --wait-update-interval 5s --max-diff-duration 1h --row-diff-column-truncate-at 0
```

### Options

```
      --auto-retry                                Should this vdiff automatically retry and continue in case of recoverable errors. (default true)
      --debug-query                               Adds a mysql query to the report that can be used for further debugging.
      --filtered-replication-wait-time duration   Specifies the maximum time to wait, in seconds, for replication to catch up when syncing tablet streams. (default 30s)
  -h, --help                                      help for create
      --limit int                                 Max rows to stop comparing after. (default 9223372036854775807)
      --max-diff-duration duration                How long should an individual table diff run before being stopped and restarted in order to lessen the impact on tablets due to holding open database snapshots for long periods of time (0 is the default and means no time limit).
      --max-extra-rows-to-compare int             If there are collation differences between the source and target, you can have rows that are identical but simply returned in a different order from MySQL. We will do a second pass to compare the rows for any actual differences in this case and this flag allows you to control the resources used for this operation. (default 1000)
      --max-report-sample-rows int                Maximum number of row differences to report (0 for all differences). NOTE: when increasing this value it is highly recommended to also specify --only-pks (default 10)
      --only-pks                                  When reporting missing rows, only show primary keys in the report.
      --row-diff-column-truncate-at int           When showing row differences, truncate the non Primary Key column values to this length. A value less than 1 means do not truncate. (default 128)
      --source-cells strings                      The source cell(s) to compare from; default is any available cell.
      --tables strings                            Only run vdiff for these tables in the workflow.
      --tablet-types strings                      Tablet types to use on the source and target.
      --tablet-types-in-preference-order          When performing source tablet selection, look for candidates in the type order as they are listed in the tablet-types flag. (default true)
      --target-cells strings                      The target cell(s) to compare with; default is any available cell.
      --update-table-stats                        Update the table statistics, using ANALYZE TABLE, on each table involved in the VDiff during initialization. This will ensure that progress estimates are as accurate as possible -- but it does involve locks and can potentially impact query processing on the target keyspace.
      --wait                                      When creating or resuming a vdiff, wait for it to finish before exiting.
      --wait-update-interval duration             When waiting on a vdiff to finish, check and display the current status this often. (default 1m0s)
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --action_timeout duration              timeout to use for the command (default 1h0m0s)
      --compact                              use compact format for otherwise verbose outputs
      --format string                        The format of the output; supported formats are: text,json. (default "text")
      --server string                        server to use for the connection (required)
      --target-keyspace string               Target keyspace for this workflow.
      --topo-global-root string              the path of the global topology data in the global topology server (default "/vitess/global")
      --topo-global-server-address strings   the address of the global topology server(s) (default [localhost:2379])
      --topo-implementation string           the topology implementation to use (default "etcd2")
  -w, --workflow string                      The workflow you want to perform the command on.
```

### SEE ALSO

* [vtctldclient VDiff](../)	 - Perform commands related to diffing tables involved in a VReplication workflow between the source and target.

Commit message:

Update docs for 16654 and 16709 (#1835)
* Update docs for https://github.com/vitessio/vitess/pull/16654

Signed-off-by: Matt Lord <mattalord@gmail.com>

* Update docs after moving to --auto-start

Signed-off-by: Matt Lord <mattalord@gmail.com>

* Also document https://github.com/vitessio/vitess/pull/16709

Signed-off-by: Matt Lord <mattalord@gmail.com>

* Rebuild docs base on main

Signed-off-by: Matt Lord <mattalord@gmail.com>

* Kick CI

Signed-off-by: Matt Lord <mattalord@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Matt Lord <mattalord@gmail.com>

content/en/docs/21.0/reference/programs/vtctldclient/vtctldclient_VDiff/vtctldclient_VDiff_create.md, after:

---
title: VDiff create
series: vtctldclient
commit: 069651aed3c06088dc00f8f699a276665056e3d0
---
## vtctldclient VDiff create

Create and run a VDiff to compare the tables involved in a VReplication workflow between the source and target.

```
vtctldclient VDiff create
```

### Examples

```
vtctldclient --server localhost:15999 vdiff --workflow commerce2customer --target-keyspace customer create
vtctldclient --server :15999 vdiff --workflow c2c --target-keyspace customer create b3f59678-5241-11ee-be56-0242ac120002 --source-cells zone1 --tablet-types "rdonly,replica" --target-cells zone1 --update-table-stats --max-report-sample-rows 1000 --wait --wait-update-interval 5s --max-diff-duration 1h --row-diff-column-truncate-at 0
```

### Options

```
      --auto-retry                                Should this vdiff automatically retry and continue in case of recoverable errors. (default true)
      --auto-start                                Start the vdiff upon creation. When false, the vdiff will be created but will not run until resumed. (default true)
      --debug-query                               Adds a mysql query to the report that can be used for further debugging.
      --filtered-replication-wait-time duration   Specifies the maximum time to wait, in seconds, for replication to catch up when syncing tablet streams. (default 30s)
  -h, --help                                      help for create
      --limit int                                 Max rows to stop comparing after. (default 9223372036854775807)
      --max-diff-duration duration                How long should an individual table diff run before being stopped and restarted in order to lessen the impact on tablets due to holding open database snapshots for long periods of time (0 is the default and means no time limit).
      --max-extra-rows-to-compare int             If there are collation differences between the source and target, you can have rows that are identical but simply returned in a different order from MySQL. We will do a second pass to compare the rows for any actual differences in this case and this flag allows you to control the resources used for this operation. (default 1000)
      --max-report-sample-rows int                Maximum number of row differences to report (0 for all differences). NOTE: when increasing this value it is highly recommended to also specify --only-pks (default 10)
      --only-pks                                  When reporting missing rows, only show primary keys in the report.
      --row-diff-column-truncate-at int           When showing row differences, truncate the non Primary Key column values to this length. A value less than 1 means do not truncate. (default 128)
      --source-cells strings                      The source cell(s) to compare from; default is any available cell.
      --tables strings                            Only run vdiff for these tables in the workflow.
      --tablet-types strings                      Tablet types to use on the source and target.
      --tablet-types-in-preference-order          When performing source tablet selection, look for candidates in the type order as they are listed in the tablet-types flag. (default true)
      --target-cells strings                      The target cell(s) to compare with; default is any available cell.
      --update-table-stats                        Update the table statistics, using ANALYZE TABLE, on each table involved in the vdiff during initialization. This will ensure that progress estimates are as accurate as possible -- but it does involve locks and can potentially impact query processing on the target keyspace.
      --wait                                      When creating or resuming a vdiff, wait for it to finish before exiting.
      --wait-update-interval duration             When waiting on a vdiff to finish, check and display the current status this often. (default 1m0s)
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --action_timeout duration              timeout to use for the command (default 1h0m0s)
      --compact                              use compact format for otherwise verbose outputs
      --format string                        The format of the output; supported formats are: text,json. (default "text")
      --server string                        server to use for the connection (required)
      --target-keyspace string               Target keyspace for this workflow.
      --topo-global-root string              the path of the global topology data in the global topology server (default "/vitess/global")
      --topo-global-server-address strings   the address of the global topology server(s) (default [localhost:2379])
      --topo-implementation string           the topology implementation to use (default "etcd2")
  -w, --workflow string                      The workflow you want to perform the command on.
```

### SEE ALSO

* [vtctldclient VDiff](../)	 - Perform commands related to diffing tables involved in a VReplication workflow between the source and target.
