content/en/docs/20.0/reference/programs/vtctldclient/vtctldclient_GetTopologyPath.md, before:

---
title: GetTopologyPath
series: vtctldclient
commit: 6cd09cce61fa79a1b7aacb36886b7dc44ae82a94
---
## vtctldclient GetTopologyPath

Gets the value associated with the particular path (key) in the topology server.

```
vtctldclient GetTopologyPath <path>
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help   help for GetTopologyPath
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --action_timeout duration              timeout to use for the command (default 1h0m0s)
      --compact                              use compact format for otherwise verbose outputs
      --server string                        server to use for the connection (required)
      --topo-global-root string              the path of the global topology data in the global topology server (default "/vitess/global")
      --topo-global-server-address strings   the address of the global topology server(s) (default [localhost:2379])
      --topo-implementation string           the topology implementation to use (default "etcd2")
```

### SEE ALSO

* [vtctldclient](../)	 - Executes a cluster management command on the remote vtctld server.

Commit message:

Add docs for https://github.com/vitessio/vitess/pull/15933 (#1757)
This also brings all of the vtctldclient docs up to date with:
export COBRADOC_VERSION_PAIRS="get_topo_path_version:20.0"
export VITESS_DIR=~/git/vitess
make vtctldclient-docs

Signed-off-by: Matt Lord <mattalord@gmail.com>

content/en/docs/20.0/reference/programs/vtctldclient/vtctldclient_GetTopologyPath.md, after:

---
title: GetTopologyPath
series: vtctldclient
commit: b9b567acbb1f36404f46b5daa168d37831dd137f
---
## vtctldclient GetTopologyPath

Gets the value associated with the particular path (key) in the topology server.

```
vtctldclient GetTopologyPath <path>
```

### Options

```
      --data-as-json   If true, only the data is output and it is in JSON format rather than prototext.
  -h, --help           help for GetTopologyPath
      --version int    The version of the path's key to get. If not specified, the latest version is returned.
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --action_timeout duration              timeout to use for the command (default 1h0m0s)
      --compact                              use compact format for otherwise verbose outputs
      --server string                        server to use for the connection (required)
      --topo-global-root string              the path of the global topology data in the global topology server (default "/vitess/global")
      --topo-global-server-address strings   the address of the global topology server(s) (default [localhost:2379])
      --topo-implementation string           the topology implementation to use (default "etcd2")
```

### SEE ALSO

* [vtctldclient](../)	 - Executes a cluster management command on the remote vtctld server.
