content/en/docs/21.0/reference/programs/vtctldclient/vtctldclient_MoveTables/vtctldclient_MoveTables_switchtraffic.md, before:

---
title: MoveTables switchtraffic
series: vtctldclient
commit: 069651aed3c06088dc00f8f699a276665056e3d0
---
## vtctldclient MoveTables switchtraffic

Switch traffic for a MoveTables VReplication workflow.

```
vtctldclient MoveTables switchtraffic
```

### Examples

```
vtctldclient --server localhost:15999 MoveTables --workflow commerce2customer --target-keyspace customer switchtraffic --tablet-types "replica,rdonly"
```

### Options

```
  -c, --cells strings                          Cells and/or CellAliases to switch traffic in.
      --dry-run                                Print the actions that would be taken and report any known errors that would have occurred.
      --enable-reverse-replication             Setup replication going back to the original source keyspace to support rolling back the traffic cutover. (default true)
      --force                                  Force the traffic switch even if some potentially non-critical actions cannot be performed; for example the tablet refresh fails on some tablets in the keyspace. WARNING: this should be used with extreme caution and only in emergency situations!
  -h, --help                                   help for switchtraffic
      --initialize-target-sequences            When moving tables from an unsharded keyspace to a sharded keyspace, initialize any sequences that are being used on the target when switching writes.
      --max-replication-lag-allowed duration   Allow traffic to be switched only if VReplication lag is below this. (default 30s)
      --shards strings                         (Optional) Specifies a comma-separated list of shards to operate on.
      --tablet-types strings                   Tablet types to switch traffic for.
      --timeout duration                       Specifies the maximum time to wait, in seconds, for VReplication to catch up on primary tablets. The traffic switch will be cancelled on timeout. (default 30s)
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --action_timeout duration              timeout to use for the command (default 1h0m0s)
      --compact                              use compact format for otherwise verbose outputs
      --format string                        The format of the output; supported formats are: text,json. (default "text")
      --server string                        server to use for the connection (required)
      --target-keyspace string               Target keyspace for this workflow.
      --topo-global-root string              the path of the global topology data in the global topology server (default "/vitess/global")
      --topo-global-server-address strings   the address of the global topology server(s) (default [localhost:2379])
      --topo-implementation string           the topology implementation to use (default "etcd2")
  -w, --workflow string                      The workflow you want to perform the command on.
```

### SEE ALSO

* [vtctldclient MoveTables](../)	 - Perform commands related to moving tables from a source keyspace to a target keyspace.

Commit message:

Update reference docs for https://github.com/vitessio/vitess/pull/16860
Signed-off-by: Matt Lord <mattalord@gmail.com>

content/en/docs/21.0/reference/programs/vtctldclient/vtctldclient_MoveTables/vtctldclient_MoveTables_switchtraffic.md, after:

---
title: MoveTables switchtraffic
series: vtctldclient
commit: 14b6873142558358a99a68d2b5ef0ec204f3776a
---
## vtctldclient MoveTables switchtraffic

Switch traffic for a MoveTables VReplication workflow.

```
vtctldclient MoveTables switchtraffic
```

### Examples

```
vtctldclient --server localhost:15999 MoveTables --workflow commerce2customer --target-keyspace customer switchtraffic --tablet-types "replica,rdonly"
```

### Options

```
  -c, --cells strings                          Cells and/or CellAliases to switch traffic in.
      --dry-run                                Print the actions that would be taken and report any known errors that would have occurred.
      --enable-reverse-replication             Setup replication going back to the original source keyspace to support rolling back the traffic cutover. (default true)
      --force                                  Force the traffic switch even if some potentially non-critical actions cannot be performed; for example the tablet refresh fails on some tablets in the keyspace. WARNING: this should be used with extreme caution and only in emergency situations!
  -h, --help                                   help for switchtraffic
      --initialize-target-sequences            When moving tables from an unsharded keyspace to a sharded keyspace, initialize any sequences that are being used on the target when switching writes. If the sequence table is not found, and the sequence table reference was fully qualified OR a value was specified for --global-keyspace, then we will attempt to create the sequence table in that keyspace.
      --max-replication-lag-allowed duration   Allow traffic to be switched only if VReplication lag is below this. (default 30s)
      --shards strings                         (Optional) Specifies a comma-separated list of shards to operate on.
      --tablet-types strings                   Tablet types to switch traffic for.
      --timeout duration                       Specifies the maximum time to wait, in seconds, for VReplication to catch up on primary tablets. The traffic switch will be cancelled on timeout. (default 30s)
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --action_timeout duration              timeout to use for the command (default 1h0m0s)
      --compact                              use compact format for otherwise verbose outputs
      --format string                        The format of the output; supported formats are: text,json. (default "text")
      --server string                        server to use for the connection (required)
      --target-keyspace string               Target keyspace for this workflow.
      --topo-global-root string              the path of the global topology data in the global topology server (default "/vitess/global")
      --topo-global-server-address strings   the address of the global topology server(s) (default [localhost:2379])
      --topo-implementation string           the topology implementation to use (default "etcd2")
  -w, --workflow string                      The workflow you want to perform the command on.
```

### SEE ALSO

* [vtctldclient MoveTables](../)	 - Perform commands related to moving tables from a source keyspace to a target keyspace.
